## Preparing for Gate-Level Netlist Integration

The netlist to be used for GLS  ``6_final.v`` is generated  at the results folder after the physical implementation of the user_project_wrappper.

The ``6_final.v`` file was chosen because it is the ultimate post-placed, post-routed, and post-CTS (Clock Tree Synthesis) physical netlist generated by OpenROAD. Unlike the RTL file, this netlist accurately reflects the actual silicon implementation, containing all physical standard cell instantiations and their physically routed connections."
Here is the exact absolute path
```
/home/vsdsquadron/workspace/vsd-scl180-orfs/orfs/flow/results/sky130hd/user_project_wrapper/base/6_final.v
```
---
### Dependencies 
Since the 6_final.v generated verilog file contains all standard cells and their connections, we should also provide verilog models of these standard cells for simulation. These files are ```sky130_fd_sc_hd.v``` and ```primitives.v```
Here is the absolute path for these two files
```
/home/vsdsquadron/.volare/sky130A/libs.ref/sky130_fd_sc_hd/verilog/primitives.v
/home/vsdsquadron/.volare/sky130A/libs.ref/sky130_fd_sc_hd/verilog/sky130_fd_sc_hd
```

In ASIC design, a netlist is only "simulation-ready" if the simulator knows how to handle the physical additions that OpenROAD made to the file. Physical additions include clock buffers, delay buffers, Tie cell, Antenna diodes. All these cells verilog models are provided through ``sky130_fd_sc_hd.v`` file.

## Modifying verification flow for GLS

The following modifications were made strictly to the ifeq ($(SIM),GL) block within the existing test Makefiles, preserving the standard execution flow.

```
ifeq ($(SIM),GL)
ifeq ($(CONFIG),caravel_user_project)
	iverilog -Ttyp -DFUNCTIONAL -DGL -DSIM -DUSE_POWER_PINS -DUNIT_DELAY=#1 \
	  -f$(VERILOG_PATH)/includes/includes.gl.caravel \
	  -f$(USER_PROJECT_VERILOG)/includes/includes.gl.$(CONFIG) \
	  -o $@ $<
else
	iverilog -Ttyp -DFUNCTIONAL -DGL -DSIM -DUSE_POWER_PINS -DUNIT_DELAY=#1 \
	  -y $(CARAVEL_VERILOG_PATH)/rtl \
	  -I $(CARAVEL_VERILOG_PATH)/rtl \
	  -f $(VERILOG_PATH)/includes/includes.rtl.$(CONFIG) \
	  /home/vsdsquadron/.volare/sky130A/libs.ref/sky130_fd_sc_hd/verilog/primitives.v \
	  /home/vsdsquadron/.volare/sky130A/libs.ref/sky130_fd_sc_hd/verilog/sky130_fd_sc_hd.v \
	  /home/vsdsquadron/workspace/vsd-scl180-orfs/orfs/flow/results/sky130hd/user_project_wrapper/base/6_final.v \
	  -o $@ $<
endif
endif

```

### Explanation of the changes made
The ``SIM=GL`` target was updated to support a **Mixed-Mode Simulation**.

The following specific changes were implemented:

1. Replaced RTL with Synthesized Netlist: The dummy RTL wrapper (__user_project_wrapper.v) was removed and replaced with the absolute path to the post-routed         OpenROAD gate-level netlist (6_final.v).

2. Included Simulation Dependencies: Because the physical netlist uses standard cells instead of behavioral logic, the paths to the Sky130 behavioral models          (primitives.v and sky130_fd_sc_hd.v) were explicitly added to the compilation command to resolve any "missing module" errors.

3. Prevented "Missing Core" Errors (Mixed-Mode): The includes file was reverted from .gl. to .rtl., and the -y and -I pointers were added to target the               $(CARAVEL_VERILOG_PATH)/rtl directory. This tells the simulator to use the fast, behavioral RTL logic for the Caravel SoC and RISC-V CPU, while reserving the      Gate-Level simulation strictly for the user_project_wrapper.

